
CAM350/FABFACTORY: VER. 7.0 
Release Highlights



Major Release: March 2001
copyright 1994-2002, DownStream Technologies LLC

NEW FEATURES OF VERSION 7.0

Panelization

The Panel Editor was developed in order to help streamline and 
optimize the process of tooling a PCB for bare-board fabrication. 
Historically this has been a very interactive process, within 
CAM350 and other competitive products, with each step being 
interactively driven by the CAM operator.

Through the use of the Panel Editor a CAM operator is now able to 
establish "Templates" for the many different panel sizes they 
might be using at their shop. Each template can include the shop's 
baseline tooling, like Pinning Holes, Test Coupons, Nomenclature 
Title Blocks, and Fiducials. Additional parameters can also be 
established for default Step & Repeat spacing of the PCB images 
and Panel Border spacing for parameter clearance. Having 
established your shop templates offers significant benefit to the 
CAM operator as the interactive set-up of these items is not 
longer required. This in turn reduces the overall process time 
required to tool the job.

In addition to the template environment, population of the panel 
also becomes easier. For the straightforward job the CAM operator 
is presented with a fully automatic Step & Repeat function. This 
automatic feature looks at all the parameters assigned within the 
template and then steps the PCB out using the best possible 
rotation in order to achieve the maximum number of copies. Today 
only one rotation will be used during this process, however future 
releases will look at the possibility of multiple rotations for 
nesting of odd shaped boards. Should nesting be required today the 
CAM operator does have the option of using a "Spreadsheet" mode, 
designed for the power-user, which allows for control of each 
stepped image. Controllable parameters include individual image 
placement and rotation.

Highlights:
* Dedicated environment for tooling of Panels.
* Step-by-step oriented process flow.
* Intelligent coupons and symbols.
* Designed for both the Novice and the Power-User.

Note: the Panel Editor is only licensed for CAM350 users who 
received a maintenance update from v6.0 to 7.0. It is not 
available for sale with other new or upgraded CAM350 bundles, as 
it is now only sold with FabFactory.

ODB++ Support

The ODB++ interface was developed to increase our compatibility 
with other systems/environments.. Like our other interfaces it is 
"Bi-Directional" but will also be offered as an "Import Only" 
option within the Manufacturing and Design product lines.

Users will benefit from this interface in several ways; the 
ability for the smaller shops to accept data from customers who 
have standardized on the ODB++, a more cost effective solution for 
the larger shops that need the ability to work with ODB++, just to 
list a few.

Highlights:
* Compatibility with Valor/Frontline product line.
* Cost effective alternative means for supporting ODB++ within the 
larger fabrication shops.
* Allows the smaller shops to bring in new business, which they 
might have otherwise had to turn away.
* Cost effective method for Designers to produce ODB++ data to 
pass to fabrication shops that prefer this format over Gerber 
files.

Extended Aperture Support

In order to facilitate the support of more intelligent data 
formats, like GenCAM and ODB++, it was necessary to expand the 
number of intrinsic aperture shapes. Previous versions of our tool 
where only capable of supporting your typical shapes like Round, 
Square, Rectangle, Thermal, Donut, etc. Through the expanded list 
of apertures users will benefit not only from additional formats, 
but the need for "Custom" apertures will all but be eliminated. 
Some of the new shapes that we support are; Rounded Rectangle, 
Chamfered Rectangle, Square Thermal, Ellipse, Bullet (or D-
Shaped), just to list a few.

In addition to expanding our apertures the user-interface (or 
Aperture Table) was also optimized to better accommodate these new 
shapes. A cleaner more streamlined dialog allows users to see all 
the parameters related to each aperture. The aperture list itself 
can also be sorted on a variety of fields for improved viewing.

Highlights:
* Increased number of intrinsic apertures supported, such as 
Rounded Rectangles, Chamfered Rectangles, Square Thermals, 
Bullets, Ellipses, etc.
* Requires the user to create fewer "Custom" apertures. In most 
cases they are virtually eliminated.
* Improved compatibility with industry formats such as GenCAM and 
ODB++.

DFF Audits Performance Enhancements

The old CAM350 Family of products first offered the ability to 
analyze PCB data for manufacturing problems in release 5.0, 
however the number of tests we initially performed where minimal. 
As we progressed to release 6.0 a significant number of additional 
tests where added. During the life cycle of release 6.0 continued 
feature improvement caused a performance degradation of the DFF 
Audit functions. While users where generally happy with the number 
of checks that we where now making, they where finding that 
because of poor performance the checks where unusable.

This release addresses the performance issues by migrating the 
most popular of the DFF Audits capabilities to contour based 
architecture. By migrating to this contour architecture we have 
increased performance by 10X on average, to as much as 100X in 
some isolated cases (Soldermask Sliver Detection). Acid trap 
detection processes that use to take minutes now take seconds. 
Sliver detections that took hours now run in seconds as well.

A secondary benefit to migrating to this contour based 
architecture is accuracy. In prior released the DFF Audits where 
processed using a "Raster" technique, which meant that the user 
had to define a resolution. Ultimately the accuracy of the test 
that was being performed was then bound by the resolution the user 
picked - if they didn't choose a tight enough resolution the check 
would fail to find all the problems that might exist on the PCB. 
The contour based environment has eliminated the need for any 
raster processing and has improved the accuracy by as much as 50X, 
since we now have an exact edge representation of all the objects 
within a PCB.

Highlights
* 10X average increase in performance, with as much as 100X in key 
isolated conditions. (Sliver detection would be the best example 
of a 100X increase)
* Improved accuracy by as much as 50X.
* Increased throughput during "Batch" run processes. (1 - 2 hour 
batch runs now get done in 5 - 10 minutes)

Improved Netlist Extraction Performance

Netlist extraction performance has become a growing problem over 
the past couple of releases. Many manufacturers are not willing to 
run the DRC checks anymore because Netlist Extraction is required 
for accuracy and it takes the lion share of the processing time. 
By not running DRC the Fabricator has exposed themselves to 
potential spacing violations that could cause problems during 
fabrication.

To address this issue the Netlist Extract feature was migrated to 
the contour based architecture, just like the DFF Audits. As one 
can imagine many of the same benefits that where seen within the 
Audits are also being seen in Netlist Extraction - increased 
performance and improved accuracy. Through-hole technology PCB's 
are seeing a 2X increase in performance while mixed (SMT and 
Through-Hole) designs are seeing 5X and as much as 10X 
improvements in performance.

Highlights
* 5X to 10X performance increases during Netlist Extraction of 
today's mixed design technology PCB's.
* Improved extraction accuracy of mixed signal split planes.
* No longer a "Bottleneck" to processes like DRC, NetCheck, or 
Netlist Compare.

Improved Draw-to-Raster Polygon Performance

Draw-to-Raster Polygon conversion has become an important part of 
everyday data optimization within the medium-sized PCB fabrication 
shops around the world. These shops do not have as "State of the 
Art" hardware or equipment, yet they most try to compete head-to-
head with large-scale shops. Draw-to-Raster conversion allows the 
smaller shops to reduce the size of their datasets by converting 
large "Vector" filled copper-pours in to more usable, and smaller, 
"Raster" fills. These raster fills are then calculated at the 
photoplotter, eliminating the need to store anything more than 
just an "Outline" in the Gerber data. Throughput is again critical 
here, just like in other areas of the CAM tooling process.

While Draw-to-Raster conversion has proved very useful to many, 
its performance has been somewhat lacking. To address this issue 
we once again called upon the contour architecture to help improve 
the performance and decrease processing times. Users will benefit 
by seeing 5 - 10X increases in performance as well as increases in 
accuracy that are again due to the contour based structure.

Highlights
* 5X to 10X performance increases during Draw-to-Raster Polygon 
conversion.
* Increased accuracy due to the contour based structure
* No longer a "Bottleneck" in the general data optimization 
process of the small to medium size fabrication shops.




New Agent Scripts
A series of new high-powered scripts allow the user to automate 
design quoting and design rule checking of databases. Each script 
offers a powerful suite of automated test capabilities to offer 
the operator the best possible tolerance and design information 
gleaned from the board at hand. The scripts run a specific set of 
design checks, etc. using an easily-editable control file, 
allowing for different rule sets to be used from job to job.

Each agent prepares a report of its findings after the script has 
completed its analysis of the design, made available to the 
operator in a variety of formats: as hard data, which can be saved 
with the database (or as a separate gerber layer),  a print out, 
or a screen display.

Two Agents are available in 7.0: 

Quote Agent: will automatically find crucial design tolerance 
specs, such as minimum air gap, trace width, annular rings, etc., 
as well as determine other design information (SMTs, layer 
information, drill information, etc). vital to operators quoting 
designs, with much more accurately and speed than a manual scan of 
the database would reveal.

MRC Agent: in addition to the powerful capabilities of the Quote 
Agent, the MRC Agent goes one step further, allowing the operator 
to specify a range of manufacturing rule checks to run 
automatically on the board in question. This allows the user to 
determine if a design is manufacturable in a matter of minutes, 
not hours!

Highlights
* Fast, automated analysis of designs can greatly decrease 
throughput times.
* Reconfigurable control files allow for a variety of tolerance 
ranges and checks to be run on multiple designs.
* Hardcopy reports and report layers allow the results of the 
checks to be passed along with the design during the manufacturing 
process, or archived for future production.


New Composite-to-Layer

In version 5.0 we created the Convert Composite function so that 
the user could take a multi-layer merge of positive and negative 
data and derive a single positive layer from it. Users where 
satisfied with the functional concept however they did not like 
the resulting layer that was produced as it was comprised of just 
Polygons. By having a layer that was made up of just Polygons this 
meant that the user was unable to make changes to the data in the 
traditional sense. (Working with pads, flashes, lines, etc.)

For this release a new function will be created called Composite-
to-Layer, its purpose also being to take a multi-layer merge of 
positive and negative data and deriving a single positive layer 
from it. The difference, or primary benefit, is Composite-to-Layer 
will try to maintain Traces and Pads, only converting positive 
data that is touched by negative data in to a polygon. The end 
result is a layer that is not only singular in nature, but can be 
edited and worked with in the more traditional sense.

Highlights
* Improves upon the existing Convert Composite by creating a layer 
where traces and pads are maintained.
* Results can be worked with and edited in a more traditional 
sense, just like existing top, bottom, or internal signal layers.
* Improves compatibility with other formats where polygon data my 
not be understood as well as our own.

	
New Find Pin Holes Command

User have long been aware of the need for a DFF Analysis check to 
identify pin hole voids in vector-drawn copper planes. These 
miniscule voids can cause problems with over-etching as well as 
the potential for photo-etch flaking, resulting in plating issues. 
With the release of 7.0, we now have the capability of discovering 
such tiny voids prior to manufacture, allowing the user to 
eliminate them before they become a problem during the 
manufacturing process.

Highlights
* Locates pin holes below a configurable minimum size.
* Can repair any discovered pin holes.
* Fast speed is consistent with the other DFF Audit commands.


New Part to Part Spacing Command

Proximity of placed parts on a board is becoming an ever-
increasing concern, with the use of automated placement machines, 
as well as the density of modern circuit boards. This new Analysis 
command assures that parts can be keep at a safe distance from one 
another.

Highlights
* Checks proximity of parts based on a variety of part features 
(outline, pads, etc).
* Can check rotated parts.

New Silk to Solder Mask Spacing Command

Silkscreens can sometimes intrude into mask openings, resulting in 
contamination of pads and traces, and potentially causing improper 
plating. This new Analysis check determines if the silkscreen 
wanders accidentally across a mask opening, bringing up the 
familiar error control panel to show the user the locations of the 
problems.

Highlights
* Scans for silkscreen intrusion into mask pad openings, flagging 
any errors below a given distance tolerance from the mask opening 
(to account for silkscreen shift).


New Solder Mask to Trace Spacing Command

Another potential manufacturing problem is stencil shift of the 
mask layer, resulting in traces which are inadvertently exposed by 
the mask opening, and as a result are over-plated. This condition 
can now be discovered using this new command. Like the Silk to 
Solder Mask command, the command allows the user to specify a 
minimum distance a mask should be from any copper data.

Highlights
* Checks for potential plating problems caused by mask shifting.

